This is a demo video of the Spritz speed-reading technology used in a virtual reality context with the Oculus Rift.  

Spritz functions by removing the need for eye movement while reading text.  While this technology is pretty interesting on it own, the emergence of consumer VR technology has the potential to make it even better.  

For instance, while this video is being presented at a 'mere' 400 words per minute, much higher speeds are possible with practice.  At such high rates of speed, a significant amount of text can go by between the moment a user makes the decision to stop reading, and the moment that they are able to interact with the device in order to pause playback.  In a VR context, we can instead use head movement directly to interact with the user, inferring when to pause playback.  

As you can see here, as soon as I direct my vision away from the actual text control, a mockup user interface comes up.  This is triggered by one of two conditions.  

First, if the user looks far enough away from the control, the playback will pause until the reading target is centered again.  

Second, if the angular velocity exceeds a given value at any point, this also pauses playback.  This is useful in order to account for sudden movment if the user's attention is captured by something else, or are adjusting the headset or taking it off.  For instance, if I even just put my hands on the head as if I were going to adjust it or prepare to take it off, this is immediately registered as a change in angular velocity and causes the playback to pause.  

Of course, having to stay stock still while reading for a long period is annoying.  In order to change  position and continue reading, I can activate tracking mode.  In this mode, if I move my gaze away from the UI, it will follow me once I've stopped moving.   This allows the user to continue reading material while remaining comfortable.  

There are plenty of other potential enhancements for this application.

This concludes the presentation. Thank you for your attention.  




